---
title: "\"Check out my post on Substack\", Gag me with a spoon"
date: 2024-11-26T22:38:58.006Z
slug: check-out-my-post-on-substack-gag
subtitle: "On sharing a link to your blog post in a community discussion."
thumbnail: https://ik.imagekit.io/tony/blog/check-out-my-post-on-substack-gag/c581565e-cda1-41a5-a419-5649f9b05b2c_4096x2731.jpeg
substack_url: https://tonywithasony.substack.com/p/check-out-my-post-on-substack-gag
---

<p>Yup, you read that right. I’m kicking off the first post on my Substack with a post about annoying Substack link sharing. Am I dumb, or maybe edgy? I don’t care, but what I do care about is <strong>Connection</strong> and <strong>Community</strong>.</p><p>So there I am, sitting in a newly formed Slack community, and I’m really trying to make an effort to engage with people. These online communities are fragile. It’s too easy to lurk. Too easy to join based on FOMO and just check in now and then or never. I decided I like the people who started this community, it’s still small, so let me put some effort into engaging people and making it a rich space of smart (or not) discussion.</p><p>I ask a question to prompt said discussion, and what do I get? Links to other people’s Substacks where they give their thoughts on the topic. Cool.</p><p>OK, I get it. You got to hustle. You need to promote yourself because who else will? Your thoughts on this topic are what I want, but I don’t want to be taken away from the discussion to read your blog. That’s basically telling me you couldn’t be bothered to engage with me.</p><p>You sat in your favorite chair, sipped some coffee in the comfort of your own home, and typed out a stream of consciousness. (Just as I am right now. The irony isn’t lost on me.) What you failed to do is connect with other humans. And you are hindering others’ ability to do the same. If you want to be a part of a community then be a part of it. That means interacting with other humans, however awkward or uncomfortable that may be. In fact, that’s the whole f*cking point!</p><p>We’ve forgotten how to connect with others. It is imperfect because we are imperfect. This imperfection of humans is what leads to deep and meaningful discussions that cause us to critically think, challenge our viewpoints, and understand another sliver of humanity.</p><p>So next time you’re tempted to send someone your thoughts via a link to your blog, please take a second and ask yourself, “Am I trying to connect with this human and other humans involved? Or am I just seeking attention?”</p><p>If you came here from a link I sent you, sorry about that. I think the irony of this post and me sending you a link is pretty funny.</p>
