---
title: Earth Day
teaser: Let's help save the planet together! Here's some tips and tricks I've
found over the years to reduce my impact.
categories: [blog, sustainability]
tags: [post]
layout: post
---

# Earth Day

Earth day is a time to remind ourselves of the environment we live in and that
we need to take care of it for ourselves and future generations. Climate Change
is getting worse every year with large scale natural disasters happening quite
often. And this is just the tip of the iceberg. World goals of being climate
neutral by 2050 is honestly too late. As an individual, there are so many things
we can be doing to mitigate our impact. The debate about corporations vs
individual change being effective is mute. We need both. Companies are made up
of people and serve people. If you make habit changes, you might be able to
convince others. This chain reaction will effect companies that want your money
as well as governments that want your support. Going along with no change,
insisting that corporations need to change, not you, isn't helping and is
honestly a bit lazy & disingenuous.

Since the horrible day in San Francisco last year when thick smoke from forest
fires caused an entire day to be orange and seemingly night time in my beloved
city, I've been on a path to discover and try out any potential lifestyle
changes to reduce my impact. I'd like to share what I've tried with you all.
Before we dive in, you need to understand that I don't know your life and your
situation. Only you can decide if something I mention here is right for you and
you have the capacity to try. Although, try not to write anything off at first
glance. If it sounds hard, try it. Even just for a week, a month. Worst case,
you stop. Best case, you keep it going. Either way, you'll learn a lot!

## Minimalism

Let's start here. Minimalism is at the core of everything. Our capitalistic
society has convinced us that we need stuff. All kinds of stuff. Once we get
that stuff, there is always more. Always the next thing to get. Constantly
acquiring stuff doesn't make us happy. I'd urge you to really take a look at
what does make you happy and invest in that. Hobbies? Start slow. Learn how to
do the hobby without buying all the stuff first. Then once you know you're
really into it, invest. This is about conscious and intentional purchases. You
should really have a reason in your head on why you need to buy the thing. Then
ask yourself, “Do I really need it?”. Cutting down on the things you buy will
save on packaging waste, emissions to transport your goods, waste if you decide
you don't want the stuff and throw it away, etc. It's also the basis for so many
other things to follow.

## Plastic

Avoid it! Plastic recycling is mostly a myth. Check the stats but it's
embarrassingly low how much is actually recycled. So step one is to avoid. Step
2, reuse. Don't go throwing away all your plastic things to buy more sustainable
material things. This get's back to minimalism. You already have the plastic
thing, use it until you absolutely can't anymore. There are a lot of companies
out there pushing sustainable products, but remember we live in a capitalistic
society. There are companies trying to make money and “sustainability” is so hot
right now. Sure, many of these companies are great and trying to do the right
thing with their products but that doesn't mean you need to buy it.

## Recycling

Check in with your waste management company. See what they actually want you to
put in each bin. I live in SF where we are lucky enough that they'll take just
about anything. Still, when I looked at their website, I learned a lot about
what goes in what bin. The little recycling icon printed on plastic material
doesn't mean it's recyclable, it just signifies the type of plastic. Those
tricksters!

## Composting

Do it. If your city picks up compost then definitely do it. There are a lot of
new bio-plastics coming out these days and many are compostable if you have
access to the right facility. Again, luckily SF has a great system. Also note
that "compostable" is not the same as "biodegradable". Biodegradable goes in the
trash! If your city doesn't pick up compost, try composting at home or check to
see if there are drop-off centers nearby. This is an important one as food waste
will generate methane when left in the garbage. It needs oxygen to breakdown
properly and this is what composting facilities do.

## Groceries

This can be a big source of plastic for some people. Especially if you shop at
Trader Joe's. Try to find a local co-op that has bulk bins or even a farmer's
market. You can definitely get most if not all of your groceries plastic free.
You might need to change your eating habits to focus on fresh produce but that's
probably a good thing too. Also, don't overbuy. One of the leading contributions
to emissions by individuals is food waste. Try to only buy what you'll eat and
make sure to compost if things do go bad.

## Less Meat

You knew this was coming. This topic is probably the most talked about. Yes,
mass animal farming/fishing is terrible for the environment. Can you reduce your
meat intake? I use to think I couldn't live without a good burger. But turns
out, you can … and you can still be happy! Wild. Another wild fact, you can live
without cheese and eggs too … AND be happy!! I know it's crazy talk. I bet most
of you are already admitting defeat and thinking there is no way you could do
this. I dare you to try. It might require cooking at home more vs ordering out.
It also might require you to think more about what you're putting in your body
to make sure you're getting appropriate nutrition. I know these are all scary
things but taking care of your body will lead to so many other benefits too.

## Cosmetics and Cleaners

Take a look in your cosmetic drawer/bag. It's all plastic huh? Can you do
better? Dr. Bronner's is a life saver here. Did you know it has 18 different
uses? It can be your shampoo, body soap, toothpaste, general cleaner, laundry
detergent, hand soap, dish soap, and so much more. Check out their website for
dilution instructions. I use it for my toothpaste but alternate with a high
fluoride toothpaste to keep my teeth healthy and also because I had some
leftover. Once I finish the tube, I'm going to check out the fluoride tablets
they make. I also use Dr. Bronner's Suds product for laundry and it's great.
Finally, I've started using an Alum stone for deodorant. This might be the
weirdest thing. Its a crystal the size of a baseball that you rub on your
armpits. It will probably last the rest of my life too. But check it out, it
works wonderfully! Oh ya, and don't forget about floss. Most of it is plastic
and you wouldn't normally chew on plastic would you?

## Water

Try to conserve water as much as you can. Most of the time we're poisoning the
water with our waste and it requires energy to clean it. Take fewer showers and
use cold water as well, if you can stand it. Re-wear clothes, do less laundry. If
you have old water in a glass, water some plants with it. Optimizing here can
also help save on the water bill.

## Heat

In a similar vein, try optimizing the heat in your home. If you can stand having
the temp lower, that can help. And vise versa for the hot times and using an
A/C.

## Driving and Cars

Try to drive less. If you live in a city, public transit and biking (e-bike too)
are great options. Also, don't buy a new car. There are so many great used cars
out there. New cars require so much energy to make.

## Kids

Don't have em. This might be a stretch. Some people believe that having kids and
raising them right will set them up to help the environment more. They are a
huge impact though and add up to more than everything else I've said so far
combined.

## Clothes

Don't fall for fast fashion. Goodwill, thrift stores, and so many other places
have awesome name brand clothes that you can buy used or out of season. There
are even websites these days where you can exchange or sell clothes to others.

## Money

Vote with your dollars. When you do decide to buy something, pay more for
something that will last. Before you do that though, try to buy something used.
“Buy nothing” groups are gaining popularity on Facebook. Check there and
Craigslist.

Your bank is also a culprit. They invest the money you have with them. Do you
know what they're investing in? Probably not something you want. Check out local
credit unions. I switched to Amalgamated bank and love it. This goes for Credit
Cards too! Then there is your own investments. Your retirement accounts and
likewise probably have some mutual funds, maybe some ETFs. Check those out and
make sure they're investing in things you're cool with. There are so many great
ESG (Environmental, Social, Governance) funds out there now. Switching to those
will help incentivize the future you want. (This is not investment advice)

## Tech

Check out Ecosia search. It uses Bing so it's not the best but at least they're
trying to plant trees with the ad money.

## You

Finally, the last topic is You. Invest in yourself. A healthy, vibrant you will
probably make better decisions for the environment and for you. Try and
challenge yourself to do some of the things above if you can. We've all been
living in a world that has made us OK with consuming and wasting so much. It
might require some struggle to change your lifestyle and mindset. It might not
be easy, but the sacrifice could be worth it.

Thanks for reading! If you have any other ideas or things you've tried let me
know! I'm always on the lookout for new ways to reduce my impact!
